README.md, before:

# Fortress API

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/golang-1.18-blue" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/strategy-gitflow-%23561D25" />
  <a href="https://github.com/consolelabs/mochi-api/blob/main/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GNU-blue" />
  </a>
</p>

## Overview

This repository is the official BE service for Fortress

### Project structure

```
.
├── cmd
│   └── server
├── docs
│   ├── adr
│   ├── changelog
│   ├── diagram
│   ├── specs
│   ├── docs.go
│   ├── swagger.json
│   └── swagger.yaml
├── migrations
│   ├── schemas
│   ├── seed
│   └── test_seed
├── pkg
│   ├── config
│   ├── constant
│   ├── contracts
│   ├── controller
│   ├── handler
│   ├── logger
│   ├── model
│   ├── mw
│   ├── request
│   ├── routes
│   ├── service
│   ├── store
│   ├── templates
│   ├── utils
│   ├── view
│   └── worker
├── CODEOWNERS
├── dbconfig.yml
├── devbox.json
├── devbox.lock
├── docker-compose.yml
├── Dockerfile
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
├── Makefile
├── README.md
└── tools.Dockerfile
```

## How to contribute

### Setup local development environment (pick one of following ways)

#### Using DEVBOX

1. Create isolated shell using devbox

```
make shell
```

2. Start Colima as container runtime 

```
make colima-start
```

Related issue when initiating development environment first time using colima
- [docker-credential-desktop not installed or not available in PATH](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67642620/docker-credential-desktop-not-installed-or-not-available-in-path/72888813#72888813)
  - tltr: Cheating by removing `credsStore` in the `~/.docker/config.json`. Or installing `osxkeychain`

####  Using your machine environment

1. Install Golang

2. Install Docker

### How to run source code locally

1. Set up source

Set up infras, install dependencies, etc.

```
make init
```

2. Set up env

Create a file `.env` with these values:

```
DB_HOST="127.0.0.1"
DB_PORT="25432"
DB_USER="postgres"
DB_PASS="postgres"
DB_NAME="fortress_local"
DB_SSL_MODE="disable"
ALLOWED_ORIGINS="*"
ENV=dev
DEBUG=true
JWT_SECRET_KEY=JWTSecretKey
```

3. Run source

```
make dev
```

The service starts with port 8080 as the default

### How to work on a TODO

1. Feel free to pick any TODO for you from [Board View](https://www.notion.so/dwarves/4d756d46e90240918cd2505f962cacd1?v=d65335d1772f4532ab1bc274a1ae8c76)
2. **Assign** that item to your account
3. Remember to update item’s **status** based on your working progress
   - `Not Started`: not started yet
   - `Planned`: working on this sprint
   - `In Progress`: still working on
   - `In Review`: Task done = PR has been merged to `develop` branch at least
   - `Complete`: Confirmation from the team that the TODO is finished

### PR template

```markdown
#### What's this PR do?

- [x] Add new routes for user
- [x] Add instruction for using docker-compose

#### What are the relevant Git tickets?

// Put in link to Git Issue

#### Screenshots (if appropriate)

// Use [Licecap](http://www.cockos.com/licecap/) to share a screencast gif.

#### Any background context you want to provide? (if appropriate)

- Is there a blog post?
- Does the knowledge base need an update?
- Does this add new dependencies which need to be added to?
```

## Technical Document

### Project structure

- `cmd/` this folder contains the main application entry point files for the project
- `docs/`: contains Swagger documentation files generated by [swaggo](https://github.com/swaggo/swag)
- `migrations/`: contains seeds and SQL migration files
  - `schemas/`: contains DB schema migration files
  - `seed/`: contains seed files which will initialize DB with sets of dummy data
  - `test-seed/`: also seed files but for test DB
- `pkg/`: contains core source code of service
  - `config/`: contains configs for application
  - `handler/`: handling API requests
  - `logger/`: logging initial and functional methods
  - `model/`: DB model structs
  - `mw/`: middleware
  - `request/`: API request models
  - `routes/`: API routing (see [gin](https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin))
  - `service/`: contains interaction with external services (google API, etc.)
  - `store/`: data access layers, contains DB CRUD operations (see [gorm](https://gorm.io/))
  - `utils/`: utility methods
  - `view/`: API view models

### Sample usecases

1. Create new API

- Check out file `/pkg/routes/v1.go` and explore the code flow to see how to create and handle an API
- Remember to annotate handler functions with [swaggo](https://github.com/swaggo/swag). Then run `make gen-swagger` to generate Swagger documentations

2. New DB migration

Check out `.sql` files under `/migrations` to write a valid schema migration / seed file

- To apply new migration files, run `make migrate-up`
- To apply seed files, run `make seed-db`
- To apply new migration files for test DB, run `make migrate-test`

**Note:** remember to run these 2 every time you pulling new code

```shell
make migrate-up
make migrate-test
```

3. DB repositories

Check out dirs under `/pkg/store`

4. New API Implementation Steps

- Add the new route to `/pkg/routes/v1.go`
  - Check if the new route is in a new group or an existing one
    - Implement `interface IHandler` in `pkg/handler/[name]/interface.go`
    - Implement handling functions that takes a `*gin.Context` in `pkg/handler/[name]/[name].go`
    - Add Swagger doc to handler
    - Add the sub handler to the main handler in `pkg/handler/handler.go`
  - Check if the new route needs authentication
  - Check if the new route needs authorization (permission)
    - If a new permission is needed then define it in `pkg/model/permissions.go`
- Add the new table
  - Create new migration by `make migrate-new`
  - Add seed file to `migrations/seed`
  - Include the new seed file in `migrations/seed/seed.sql`
  - Check if existing seed data needs modification (`roles.sql`, `permisions.sql`, etc.)
  - Implement the model in `pkg/model`
  - After the model is defined, implement the CRUD functions in `pkg/store`
    - Implement `interface IStore` in `pkg/store/[name]/interface.go`
    - Implement the details in `pkg/store/[name]/[name].go`
    - Add the sub store to the main store in `pkg/store/store.go`
- Glue the implemented handler and the implemented store

## :pray: Credits

A big thanks to all who contributed to this project!

If you'd like to contribute, please contact us.

Commit message:

feat: migrate accounting flow (#789)
* feat(accounting): complete multi-provider accounting integration

- Added accounting migration plan and schema docs
- Implemented NocoDB accounting provider with todos, monthly plans, metadata, and due-dates
- Refactored accounting handler and service layer to provider-based architecture
- Added provider-agnostic webhook handler with Basecamp + NocoDB parsing and attachment support
- Added TASK_PROVIDER unification and accounting_task_refs storage
- Updated configuration, routes, and cutover/migration docs
- Marked Basecamp accounting provider as deprecated and added full test coverage
- Update ci test flow

README.md, after:

# Fortress API

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/golang-1.18-blue" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/strategy-gitflow-%23561D25" />
  <a href="https://github.com/consolelabs/mochi-api/blob/main/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GNU-blue" />
  </a>
</p>

## Overview

This repository is the official BE service for Fortress

### Project structure

```
.
├── cmd
│   └── server
├── docs
│   ├── adr
│   ├── changelog
│   ├── diagram
│   ├── specs
│   ├── docs.go
│   ├── swagger.json
│   └── swagger.yaml
├── migrations
│   ├── schemas
│   ├── seed
│   └── test_seed
├── pkg
│   ├── config
│   ├── constant
│   ├── contracts
│   ├── controller
│   ├── handler
│   ├── logger
│   ├── model
│   ├── mw
│   ├── request
│   ├── routes
│   ├── service
│   ├── store
│   ├── templates
│   ├── utils
│   ├── view
│   └── worker
├── CODEOWNERS
├── dbconfig.yml
├── devbox.json
├── devbox.lock
├── docker-compose.yml
├── Dockerfile
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
├── Makefile
├── README.md
└── tools.Dockerfile
```

## How to contribute

### Setup local development environment (pick one of following ways)

#### Using DEVBOX

1. Create isolated shell using devbox

```
make shell
```

2. Start Colima as container runtime 

```
make colima-start
```

Related issue when initiating development environment first time using colima
- [docker-credential-desktop not installed or not available in PATH](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67642620/docker-credential-desktop-not-installed-or-not-available-in-path/72888813#72888813)
  - tltr: Cheating by removing `credsStore` in the `~/.docker/config.json`. Or installing `osxkeychain`

####  Using your machine environment

1. Install Golang

2. Install Docker

### How to run source code locally

1. Set up source

Set up infras, install dependencies, etc.

```
make init
```

2. Set up env

Create a file `.env` with these values:

```
DB_HOST="127.0.0.1"
DB_PORT="25432"
DB_USER="postgres"
DB_PASS="postgres"
DB_NAME="fortress_local"
DB_SSL_MODE="disable"
ALLOWED_ORIGINS="*"
ENV=dev
DEBUG=true
JWT_SECRET_KEY=JWTSecretKey
```

Task provider migrations rely on the unified `TASK_PROVIDER` switch alongside the related Basecamp/Noco DB IDs (`ACCOUNTING_BASECAMP_*`, `NOCO_ACCOUNTING_*`). Use `.env.sample` as the source of truth for the additional variables required when enabling the new accounting provider.

3. Run source

```
make dev
```

The service starts with port 8080 as the default

### How to work on a TODO

1. Feel free to pick any TODO for you from [Board View](https://www.notion.so/dwarves/4d756d46e90240918cd2505f962cacd1?v=d65335d1772f4532ab1bc274a1ae8c76)
2. **Assign** that item to your account
3. Remember to update item’s **status** based on your working progress
   - `Not Started`: not started yet
   - `Planned`: working on this sprint
   - `In Progress`: still working on
   - `In Review`: Task done = PR has been merged to `develop` branch at least
   - `Complete`: Confirmation from the team that the TODO is finished

### PR template

```markdown
#### What's this PR do?

- [x] Add new routes for user
- [x] Add instruction for using docker-compose

#### What are the relevant Git tickets?

// Put in link to Git Issue

#### Screenshots (if appropriate)

// Use [Licecap](http://www.cockos.com/licecap/) to share a screencast gif.

#### Any background context you want to provide? (if appropriate)

- Is there a blog post?
- Does the knowledge base need an update?
- Does this add new dependencies which need to be added to?
```

## Technical Document

### Project structure

- `cmd/` this folder contains the main application entry point files for the project
- `docs/`: contains Swagger documentation files generated by [swaggo](https://github.com/swaggo/swag)
- `migrations/`: contains seeds and SQL migration files
  - `schemas/`: contains DB schema migration files
  - `seed/`: contains seed files which will initialize DB with sets of dummy data
  - `test-seed/`: also seed files but for test DB
- `pkg/`: contains core source code of service
  - `config/`: contains configs for application
  - `handler/`: handling API requests
  - `logger/`: logging initial and functional methods
  - `model/`: DB model structs
  - `mw/`: middleware
  - `request/`: API request models
  - `routes/`: API routing (see [gin](https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin))
  - `service/`: contains interaction with external services (google API, etc.)
  - `store/`: data access layers, contains DB CRUD operations (see [gorm](https://gorm.io/))
  - `utils/`: utility methods
  - `view/`: API view models

### Sample usecases

1. Create new API

- Check out file `/pkg/routes/v1.go` and explore the code flow to see how to create and handle an API
- Remember to annotate handler functions with [swaggo](https://github.com/swaggo/swag). Then run `make gen-swagger` to generate Swagger documentations

2. New DB migration

Check out `.sql` files under `/migrations` to write a valid schema migration / seed file

- To apply new migration files, run `make migrate-up`
- To apply seed files, run `make seed-db`
- To apply new migration files for test DB, run `make migrate-test`

**Note:** remember to run these 2 every time you pulling new code

```shell
make migrate-up
make migrate-test
```

3. DB repositories

Check out dirs under `/pkg/store`

4. New API Implementation Steps

- Add the new route to `/pkg/routes/v1.go`
  - Check if the new route is in a new group or an existing one
    - Implement `interface IHandler` in `pkg/handler/[name]/interface.go`
    - Implement handling functions that takes a `*gin.Context` in `pkg/handler/[name]/[name].go`
    - Add Swagger doc to handler
    - Add the sub handler to the main handler in `pkg/handler/handler.go`
  - Check if the new route needs authentication
  - Check if the new route needs authorization (permission)
    - If a new permission is needed then define it in `pkg/model/permissions.go`
- Add the new table
  - Create new migration by `make migrate-new`
  - Add seed file to `migrations/seed`
  - Include the new seed file in `migrations/seed/seed.sql`
  - Check if existing seed data needs modification (`roles.sql`, `permisions.sql`, etc.)
  - Implement the model in `pkg/model`
  - After the model is defined, implement the CRUD functions in `pkg/store`
    - Implement `interface IStore` in `pkg/store/[name]/interface.go`
    - Implement the details in `pkg/store/[name]/[name].go`
    - Add the sub store to the main store in `pkg/store/store.go`
- Glue the implemented handler and the implemented store

## :pray: Credits

A big thanks to all who contributed to this project!

If you'd like to contribute, please contact us.
